TITLE:   Xeriscape Design tips for Texas
DATE:    2017-03-28
URL:     https://ideallandscapeservices.com/xeriscape-design-tips-texas/
SLUG:    xeriscape-design-tips-texas
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Daily, 31% percent of water used in an average Texas family is dedicated to outdoor use or landscape irrigation. This percentage can even get above 50% during the summer. According to the EPA, 50% of the water we use outdoors is wasted due to evaporation and inefficient watering methods. Xeriscape landscaping has been a remarkable solution to reduce outdoor water use. Xeriscaping is not only environmentally friendly but when done right, it can save time and money. All this, while also maintaining good looking landscapes no matter what time of the year it is.
 
Our 7 xeriscape design tips
To implement good looking xeriscape, you need to carefully examine your landscape area and make a design based on your creative needs and water-use budget. Ideal Landscaping has always helped homeowners come up with unique and eye-catching xeriscape designs. In this article, we have put together a few tips to help you get your creative juices flowing. The xeriscape concept’s main purpose is water conservation while maintaining good looks.

Regional and native plants

Determine which type of plants perform best in your area. Using native plants from your region will benefit you because they require minimal water supply beyond normal rainfall. These also rarely require additional fertilizers; and are mostly resistant to local pests and plant diseases.

 Limit your lawn/turf area

While maintaining a reasonable turf open space can work for visual appeal, it is wise to use water-conserving species. If you need a recommendation for some good options that work well for you give us a call at 817-457-7507 . You can also consult your local garden center.

Group plants by their water needs

Grouping like-plants together helps enhance the visual appearance. This also helps you avoid over-watering and helps you establish an irrigation system that prevents evaporation during warm weather.

Soil Improvement

Providing an efficient amount of organic material will create a healthy environment for your plants to grow in. This will also help in aeration and quick drainage, while also storing water.

Implement an irrigation system based on plant needs.

To achieve this, you need to carefully plan your garden. As we suggested on number 3, group together plants that survive on the same amount of water. Systems like drip-type irrigation and soaker hoses are considered the most efficient because they deliver water directly to the plant roots.

Proper Mulching

Mulching is one of the most important features of a xeriscape design. While mulch slows down evaporation, it also adds an aesthetic value to your lawn and reduces the weeds. When you choose the right color of mulch, you realize how much it contrasts your flowers. Organic mulch will slowly enhance your soil as it naturally decomposes over time.

Low maintenance

While low maintenance is one of the benefits of implementing a xeriscape design, good planning will help you reduce the maintenance required for your lawn. However, from time to time, you will need to check on the thickness of the mulch, cover bare soil and get rid of the weeds.
For a free estimate; and some success stories, give us a call at 817-457-7507 or check out our before and after page for some creative ideas.
